---
layout: post
title: "How Do I..."
link: "how"
order: 2
tags: []
---

###Change settings (fonts, line numbers...)?

Settings are represented as behaviors in Light Table. To modify your user behaviors, execute the `Settings: User behaviors` command and modify the file that is opened. For example, to turn on the line number gutter, find the `:editor` tag and in the square brackets type "number". Then select `Editor: Show line numbers` behavior. This workflow lets you search for the behavior you want via the auto-complete and then the helper will show you what parameters are needed (if any) for that behavior.

All settings in Light Table work this way and behaviors give you the ability to fundamentally change the functionality of Light Table.

###Change theme/skin

To set the editor theme execute the `Settings: User behaviors` command, find the `:editor` tag and in the square brackets type "theme". Then select `Style: Set the editor theme` and start typing the name of a theme (auto-complete will help you here). If you use a light theme you probably want to use the `Style: Set Light Table skin` to change to the `"light"` skin as well.

You can add new skins or themes by placing css files in the `/path/to/lighttable/core/css/skins/` and `/path/to/lighttable/core/css/themes/` directories respectively.
###Change font settings?

Changing the font settings is trivial, typing `:font` brings up the tag. Selecting the option from the menu adds the following line to your user behaviors.

```clojure
(:lt.objs.style/font-settings "Menlo" 14 2)
```
The first parameter is the name of the font, the second is the size, third is the line height.

###Evaluate code inline?

Within an editor, eval a single "block" (or form if you're used to LISP) is bound to Cmd/Ctrl+Enter by default and evaling an entire file is bound to Cmd/Ctrl+Shift+Enter. Not all file types know how to eval, to find out what kinds of clients are available for evaluation, open the `connect` tab and press the "Add Connection" button. This will give you a list of all the clients Light Table knows how to start.

###Change keybindings?

Keybindings are defined in .keymap files in Light Table. To open the user keymap, execute the `Settings: User keymap` command. To see the default keybindings you can execute the `Settings: Default keymap` command. Keys are bound based on context, which allows you to create contextual command schemes.

###Split windows?

You can create a new tabset by either right clicking in the tab area and selecting `New tabset` or by using the `Tabs: Add a tabset` command in the command bar. To close a tabset you can either use the `Tabs: Remove active tabset` command or resize it such that it has 0 width.

###Open a new window?

By default, Cmd/Ctrl+Shift+N is bound to the command `Window: Open new window`, which you can also just execute from the command tab.

###Open a browser tab for live modification?

You can open a browser tab by either using the `Browser: add browser tab` command or by choosing the browser client type form the "Add Connection" menu in the `connect` tab. Once open, it is now available as an evaluation client and Cmd/Ctrl+R is bound to refreshing it.

###Bring up auto-completion?

Auto-complete is bound to the Tab key if there's some non-space character preceding the cursor, otherwise a tab is inserted.

###Eval an arbitraty unit of code?

If you have something selected Light Table will send the selection text for eval if you press Cmd/Ctrl+Enter.

###Eval Clojure?

To eval Clojure, open a .clj file and press Cmd/Ctrl+Enter. Light Table will find a leiningen project if there is one or it will use it's local REPL client to evaluate your code.

###Connect to an nREPL server?

To connect to a remote nREPL server, open the `Connections` panel, press the `add connection` button, and select the `Clojure (remote nREPL)` client. Note that you must include the `lighttable-ops` middleware in your repl options, for example:

```clojure
(defproject lttest "0.1.0-SNAPSHOT"
  :description "FIXME: write description"
  :dependencies [[org.clojure/clojure "1.5.1"]
                 [lein-light-nrepl "0.0.6"]] ;;Make sure to check what the latest version of lein-light-nrepl is
  :repl-options {:nrepl-middleware [lighttable.nrepl.handler/lighttable-ops]})
```

###Eval ClojureScript?

You can eval ClojureScript in a browser or within Light Table's UI itself. To eval in a browser:

1. Go to the `connect` tab
2. Click "Add Connection"
3. Select "Browser"
4. Navigate to the page you want to eval in
5. Press Cmd/Ctrl+Enter

Note that in order to use ClojureScript eval you need the output from [lein-cljsbuild](https://github.com/emezeske/lein-cljsbuild) already on the page, as Light Table does not currently try to output all the standard dependency for ClojureScript.

###Eval Javascript in NodeJS?

To eval in a Node process:

1. Go to the `connect` tab
2. Click "Add Connection"
3. Select "NodeJS"
4. Choose a Javascript file to start the node server with.
5. Open a .js file
6. Press Cmd/Ctrl+Enter
7. Select your nodejs client from the popup

###Eval Python?

The easiest way is to simply open a Python file and press Cmd/Ctrl+Enter. This will cause Light Table to start a python client that it can then send code to.

###Use IPython for Python eval?

By default, if Light Table can find a recent IPython installed on your machine, it will use it to provide a much more robust python evaluation environment. If you don't have it installed, follow these [instructions](http://ipython.org/ipython-doc/stable/install/install.html) to do so (make sure you install pyzmq as well). With it you can use matplotlib and pylab inline. To see if Light Table is using IPython for Python eval, open the `connect` tab and look to see if your Python client has the type of `ipython`. Note that in order for Light Table to use IPython, pyzmq also needs to be installed.

###See the output from STDOUT and STDERR?

When you print from a client, it will appear in the Console, which can be opened by clicking the blue number in the bottom right corner of the editor, from the `View` menu, or by using the `Console: Toggle bottom console` command.

###Use a different client once I've evaled something?

From the `connect` tab, find the client and make sure the editor you evaled in is active. The connected client(s) will appear highlighted. Click the "unset" button to force Light Table to re-evaluate what clients are available to eval in the editor.

###Close a client?

From the `connect` tab, find the client and click the "disconnect" button.

###Toggle Vim keybindings?

Open your user behaviors and in the `:editor` tag start typing "vim". Select the `Vim: Activate vim mode` behavior.

###Toggle Emacs keybindings?

Open your user behaviors and in the `:editor` tag start typing "emacs". Select the `Emacs: Activate emacs mode` behavior.

###Exclude files from the workspace?

Open your user behaviors and in the `:app` tag start typing "ignore". Select the `Files: Set ignore pattern` behavior.

###Change the location of the lighttable directory?

You can use the environment variable `LTHOME` to tell the command line scripts where to find LT.

###Write plugins for Light Table?

The plugin API isn't available quite yet, but it's something we're working furiously on. You can, however, load some plugins that already exist in the wild simply by putting them in `/path/to/lighttable/plugins/plugin-name`.

###Find out what version of Light Table I'm using?

Use the `App: Light Table version` command from the command tab.
